Okay, so we now start to dive in
to our one-way data binding.
This is the world in which we are going
to start restricting ourselves.
We're gonna move from
the truths of the world of
user interface development
within the web browser and
all its ad hoc history,
into the moves, the efforts, for
us to make our lives more
manageable as UI engineers.
And so we're gonna move to one way
data binding, our popular paradigm for
tackling the essential UI
engineering challenge.
Data that's happening in the browser to
be stored and changed within JavaScript.
And our view, which is what the user sees,
which in the web browser is
everything that is in that C++ list,
technically object, the model of the page,
two different runtimes.
Never the two shall mix
except via formal calls
to get a setter properties
in JavaScript or
handler functions in the DOM in C++,
being called back into JavaScript
to run code on a user action.
What a convoluted back and forth.
You wouldn't design that if you,
maybe you would, I don't know,
that's the [INAUDIBLE] best way.
Hard, I don't think so.
Invaluable at scale to have some sort
of restrictions on this structure.
Thousands of points of interaction,
thousands of pieces of content data,
with associated underlying data and
what you see in pixels.
The one way data binding paradigm
implemented in Angular, in Vue,
in React primarily,
although there are other ways of doing it.
Because these are not truths,
these are efforts to provide restrictions
to us that make our lives
easier as engineers.
It'll enable us to build scalable
applications with or without frameworks,
debug complex UIs, and
answer the toughest interview questions.
So here we go.
Where was I?
Let's expand our UI to
be more sophisticated.
Let's expand our UI to make
it more sophisticated.
We're gonna add another handler.
This one for clicks.
Sounds like a, I don't know, whatever.
This one's for clicks.
This is for the fact,
this is for the clicks.
We are gonna change our view based now
on multiple possible user interactions,
in practice maybe thousands.
Okay, let's build this out.
We're gonna do it hopefully
a little bit more fluidly, so
that you all start to, cuz you're all
gonna start to be like, this again.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Creating another access object,
pending another, or
attaching another handler function.
Yeah, okay, so we're gonna do it people,
because that is what we love doing,
isn't it?
In hard parts,
the same thing on repeat [LAUGH].
>> [LAUGH]
>> The same thing on repeat.
That's what we love doing.
So here we go, with that in mind and
hopefully I can start to
whiteboard this out as we go.
Here's our web page, web app, so to speak.
And then we know that we have in C++,
we have a list of elements that model,
model just being a posh word for
a simplified representation or
a simplified description,
a simplified in this case,
way of storing the content
that's gonna be displayed.
I say storing, well,
technically anything that's on here, and
that's persistent, right?
The use of this, this doesn't disappear,
is on this object.
If we could all list, if we could
just interact with this directly,
we'd be in a very different world,
but we can't.
Unfortunately, we have to move in
a different space, that of JavaScript,
or may not, unfortunately,
because we do rather like JavaScript.
It has a memory for
storing our data and for
storing objects which are labeled.
Labelled objects that are automatically
inserted in that memory full of methods,
our most interesting one being document,
full of methods that allow us to add,
edit, access, query, search,
create staff in C++ in this list.
Okay, I think that is good to go.
We lost our schema, dear.
Next time can we have our wonderful, no,
they wont be able to do because they
use the mop to wipe down, don't they?
All right, hey, we're not gonna forget
this schema after this, are we?
app.html gets loaded in, HTML parser,
interprets looks through the code and
then loads onto our C++ list,
known as the DOM.
Everything on there will be
rendered to the actual page.
As soon as the HTML parser
hits any JavaScript file,
it spins up the JavaScript runtime.
There it is and
that's where we're going now.
The JavaScript runtime for
memory has access to the DOM from
the document object, isn't that cool?
Here it is, so, there it is.
And it has a hidden link to the DOM,
there.
And it also has a bunch of useful
functions, which ones are we using here?
Just query selector I think,
yeah, just query selector,
which allows us to access
any element on the DOM.
Which makes me realize,
what did I forget to do?
I forgot to run my HTML first.
So Justice, what are our elements on
the DOM immediately from the HTML file?
>> Input.
>> Input, perfect, there we go.
>> Div.
>> Div, perfect, and.
>> Script.
>> Script, exactly, which is what
allowed this JavaScript to load.
And beautiful, there we go.
And those also, Justice,
what happens on the page itself?
>> Get input rendered and then a div
that's not really shown but it's there.
>> Beautiful, rendered,
I like that term, yes exactly.
Rendered, posh word for displayed.
Okay, great, now let's go into JavaScript.
And we're gonna start saving
our own stuff in memory, so
let's go with Justice, actually,
you can keep us going here.
What are we gonna save in memory?
Our first line, they're saving some data.
>> So we're declaring a variable post.
>> Yeah.
>> And we're saving an empty string to it.
Perfect, and remember right now we have
nothing displayed on our page beside our
boxes, but we wanted, from our description
of what we wanna produce in our UI,
is almost like a spec for our UI.
Our product team said, hey,
we want this to happen.
We wanna be a preview text, what's up?
That would therefore have to show up
in the value of the input element.
That's one way we could do it.
That's how we're gonna do it here.
And then when the user starts typing,
well firstly,
they're gonna click on the cell,
on the input field to start typing,
that click is going to wipe
the default preview text.
And let the user at that
moment start typing.
That typed content will then display
in both the position they're typing in,
because they're typing in it, the input
field, and in a little preview window,
the div right below.
That's our ideal.
Pretty basic UI.
At least it's gonna start to get
a little bit more complex and
already we're gonna have to start watching
the data flow around between, and
already it's gonna get harder to do so.
So post is declared as an empty string.
Justice keep me going now,
what is gonna be stored into JS input?
>> So we're going to call a document and
the method query selector,
and pass in a string of input,
called input.
>> Okay, yeah, so
we're calling query selector method,
don't worry we're gonna do this again and
again people, [LAUGH] no, we are.
And parsing input string, which is going,
what's query selector do,
what three things does it do Justice?
>> It is going to.
>> How does it know where to hit?
>> It has an invisible link that
links it to the DOM C++ stack.
Yeah, yeah.
>> And looking for input in that list.
>> Exactly, does it find it?
>> It finds it, it finds [INAUDIBLE].
>> It better does.
Exactly, exactly, exactly.
And we are not though able to
retrieve it back into JavaScript,
instead JavaScript is going to
give us an object that is going
to have a link to that DOM element and
a bunch of useful functions.
And that is stored into
where again Justice, which.
>> Can store in the JS input.
>> Perfect, thank you.
And now, Justice don't worry,
now by analogy Justice,
what is going to be stored into JS div?
Let me just, let's put what methods
we're gonna get on JS input.
There's a link to the input element.
There it is.
Perfect, and now what are the methods
are gonna show up and
just based on what we can see here?
>> I've got .value.
>> .value in line 8.
See any other setters?
>> The .input on input.
>> On input, and
I think there might be one more there.
Right below.
>> Yeah, and then the onclick.
>> Onclick, exactly, yeah.
And look, these are on all, or
some of these are on all DOM elements,
it's whatever we can use.
I just only show the ones which we're
actually gonna use just to, yeah,
keep things simple.
We can find all of them on MDN,
every single last one of them.
Beautiful, now by analogy Justice, because
we do not want to do that again, do we?
By analogy, what is going to be
stored in JS div, do you think?
>> Let's see, we've got text content.
>> Yeah, so just to start off,
so we call it.
So we're gonna assign a JS div,
a call to query selector that
is going to search the DOM,
linked to by the hidden link in
the document object, for a selector.
That's a string that allows us to select
an element of type, what here Justice?
>> Div.
>> Div, spot on, do we find it?
>> We do.
>> We bet we do, and we are going
to not better return it directly,
just a link to it, which will be
stored as a hidden property on
a brand new JavaScript object
created by the query selector call.
And as you say that query selector,
or that brand new JavaScript object,
sorry, is going to have what property or
what getter setter property Justice?
>> Text content.
>> Text content, perfect.
And a link to that div.
A link to that div, beautiful.
And then text content as its most
useful here getter setter property.
Are you already feeling people,
the tediousness of joy.
Yes, let me know, no one's.
For the record, nobody nodded.
>> [LAUGH]
>> It was just looks of joy.
Okay, perfect.
We are going to display some of
the content or some content here,
which is we're gonna use
the value setter property
on the JS input object that
acts as an accessor for
the underlying DOM element input.
And we're going to set its value,
which is currently,
there's no value being displayed,
cuz value is an empty string.
We're gonna set its
value to the value post.
No, we're not, sorry,
we're gonna set its value to what?
We're gonna set its value to, Alexa?
>> The string what's on your mind.
>> Perfect, yes, perfect.
So let's do that.
jsinput.value is going to use the value
setter to access
the associated input element,
the corresponding C++ object of type input
that we know describes exactly
what shows up on the page.
Because of the automatic layout and
render engine
between the list of elements in C++ and
the web page.
And we are going to set its value to
exactly as Alexa said there, what's,
I should have changed, I shouldn't,
I need to edit accesses?
Because by the looks of it,
I've set it to what's up, dear.
Okay, to what's up to keep it shorter for
my code, so we'll save it to what's up.
And that is going to set
the value here to what's up,
and that's gonna show up
immediately on our screen.
What's up, beautiful.
Now we save some handlers, why?
What are some handlers we're
gonna save right here?
>> Yeah, we're signing handle,
we're defining handle input and
then handle click.
>> Perfect, why is there still,
I know that inside Y wants to
say the sophisticated function
definition processing here before.
>> [LAUGH]
>> But, look at that,
I didn't do an uppercase C for
the handle click.
I need to set these as edit mode so
I can live edit that.
But there we go.
Then we're gonna use our setters.
Oninput and on click to set
the handlers for this input element.
I think what I'm gonna do so
we can fit them on is,
I think I'm gonna write
them just below here.
So here's our different elements,
gonna run this below here.
Handlers, right?
And then for input by the user and
click by the user.
Okay, perfect, so let's assign them.
If you can do that actually why?
What are we doing in line 15 roughly,
in terms of our,
well talk me through the full process.
>> We're using the setter method
on JS input called on input.
>> Perfect.
>> And we're passing the handle input
function definition to that setter.
And then we're.
>> Wow.
>> Doing the same thing with the.
>> And that same being assigned as the
input handler on the DOM object in C++.
So yeah, let's put that here.
Let's see if I can do this small enough,
sorry people.
Handle input, there it is.
And then same thing for click.
You're saying?
>> Yep, we're passing the handle
click function definition
to the onclick setter
property of the JS input.
>> I think honestly that deserves
a round of applause, I don't know why.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> I think it deserves a round of applause
cuz I think [INAUDIBLE] will be thinking,
all very well I can maybe follow through,
but to get the verbal technical
communication of that flow perfect there
is really outstanding.